big hello from raleigh north carolina
yes i moved to raleigh from portland a
couple weeks ago so now i'm doing my
recording in rowley so if you are ever
in raleigh's reach out to me let's have
a cup of coffee today i have a special
guest for my podcast and also my video
b2b marketing and more and this is a
channel really really about b2b
marketing and everything that you can
imagine we'll talk about it today's
guest is very very special because he's
actually made that transition
you know from a completely different
field
to the marketing side so i'm talking to
jahari
gokbara did i say that name correctly
yes yes
yes you said it right gevara
very very good jahari it's so good to
have you
you helped me on a couple things
especially on the marketing automation
tool and i use zoho i'm not affiliated
with zoho platform at all they are not
paying me to say this but i'm using
their tool actually for marketing
automation and also for some other
office management activities as well and
johari has been helping me on the crm
side of it but jihadi has a very very
interesting experience okay
so you are a certified zoho partner
but can you talk to all of us
what you did before you became a
certified partner thank you very much
pam for having me here before i was a
zoho partner i had my business it was
like a automotive shop that's what
it's completely different industry it
was more manual and my business was just
dealing with more cars and motorcycles
so nothing to do with a digital
business you own a car shop in houston
correct well long period of time correct
yes and your passion
still now is about cars my passion is
painting but i didn't really go into
business for
my passion it was just mainly because
something that i had to go ahead and do
so i never really
followed my passion i just followed what
the market wanted me to be doing so you
own a car shop and but your specialty is
automatic painting so you are actually a
painter especially a custom painting for
the cars correct
why did you make that transition and why
did you decided like you know this is
not something i wanted to do in the long
term i want to do something totally
different and why did you decided that
you want to do digital marketing or
marketing automation or cim for me to be
able to go ahead and scale for me to be
able to provide the
life that i wanted for my family i had
to over extend myself and overwork
myself so i just didn't see a way for me
to be able to scale in a way that i
wanted to go ahead and scale i'd
structure my business in a way that i
could be able to have nothing but
contracts and i positioned myself to be
able to sell somebody came in and
offered to be able to purchase my
business which was the contract and my
employees that manage those
this contracts and once i was able to go
ahead and sell then my opportunity was
like where should i be able to go and
what's your next step yeah what's my
next step and i knew that the crm was
the business automation process was
something that is very valuable but i'm
not going to say that i just woke up and
i knew that was my passion to go ahead
and proceed becoming a crm automation
consultant it was something that i knew
that my business was lacking a certain
way so whenever i i had the opportunity
to go ahead and sell i kind of
investigated more in the topics because
i was in a position where i didn't know
what i didn't know so i started using
that time to be able to try to figure
out what was my next my next goal so one
of my decisions that i ended up trying
to do was to be able to open a digital
marketing agency but it was at the end
of the day something i really felt
passionate about and not in a way that i
could be able to help businesses because
i really wanted a help business
yeah whenever i found out about crm i
realized that that's something that
every business needs to be able to go
ahead and use and take advantage of but
i was not in a position to be able to
help anybody out so that's whenever i
decided to go ahead and just focus on me
becoming the best person that i i could
have benefited myself so prior to me
selling my business i knew my business
had a couple of hiccups and
things that i needed to go ahead and do
so i ended up working on becoming the
person that i wish i would have had
whenever i had my business
you know there's one thing that you
brought up a very interesting point i
want to paraphrase it i've been working
with you for a year by now and there is
a couple of things that made an
impression on me number one is you
always try to improve
and you and i are always talking about
what books to read especially the
marketing books that we need to read and
you actually introduced me several books
and that was actually pretty good and i
always get the impression that you
always want to make an effort to improve
and i like that a lot from my
perspective to live in a current society
that we have to be continuously absorbed
and embrace new technology and new
things that will come to our way
i feel that the ability to continuously
learn is so critical and important as a
human being in the current modern
society and you actually have that
because you and i talk about it quite
often and it was like okay what can we
do better what are the process we need
to improve and also what other things or
the skill set that we need to possess
and one of the ways to do that is
actually by reading and you introduce me
several books and there are a couple
books that you were talking to me about
can you also share with our audience
what are they one of the books that
really drove me as
as motivation and kind of it was a a
guiding stone for me through this whole
process was be so good that they can't
ignore you
within that book it talks about the
hours and time that you have to spend
and to be able to become so good into a
topic that people
gravitate towards you because you're
good at that one thing and it takes so
much time and effort to be able to grow
to that stance or to that position and
it's not something that you just out of
a sudden grow with it i 100 a grade yeah
you have to work on that skill so
through this whole process through this
whole transition i focus on that and i
realize that i have to continue
improving myself
until
people start realizing that i was good
enough for them to be able to
find me or search for me
prior to that i had to continue
improving myself and i knew that the
business would follow me and this new
journey was going to just start building
putting itself together but i just had
to focus on myself instead of looking
for opportunities you talk about that
book you you need to be so good so
people can ignore you and i think
there's a similar book is called
outliers and it's by malcolm gladwell
it's talking about the 10 000 hour rule
which is if you want to be so good at
something you have to somehow invest 10
000 hours of your time and that's
probably about two and a half to three
years
right really really honing that skill so
talk to us in terms of when you made
that transition after you sow the car
shop
and that you decided you made the
decision that you want to go into the
marketing automation and cim how do you
go about like determine which platform
you want to be certified and what is
your learning path to make that happen
the thing that i think that people under
misunderstand that concept is that they
view the 10 000
rule as
a for example a specific topic and i
view it as okay
i have to design who i want to be
and i have up those 10 000 hours to be
able to become that person to make that
happen yeah
yeah to make that happen and i have to
go ahead and
continuously work on that process and
make sure that i get to that goal and
and i cannot quit unless i have those 10
000 hours so that that allows me to be
able to open up my mind and understand
well this is not going to happen
tomorrow this is not going to happen
next week and now it's not gonna happen
in six months it's gonna happen until i
put those ten thousand hours and there
was many times that i would not enjoy my
family or go out in the weekends because
i knew i had to focus on those ten
thousand hours you need to put it into
the hours yeah exactly there's no other
way around it you cannot there's no
shortcut around it
you have to put in hours there's no
shortcut there is no shortcut that's one
thing i want to tell all the digital
marketers many of them come to me and
say you know what can you tell us how we
can do this fast
um
digital marketing you cannot do it fast
there are so many intricacies
and you and i work on just a nurturing
campaign for example that people
subscribe to my newsletter and we have
three emails that we want to send out
how much time you and i just talk about
the process in addition to a copy right
what is the process what that workflow
will look like who should actually
receive it right going back and forth
that by itself it's kind of like two or
three months would you agree yeah most
definitely it cannot happen that fast
especially on digital marketing it just
takes time to actually do it you know my
video editor currently is recording
for me on our behalf
scott spent hours countless hours to
edit this video for example and there's
no shortcut you have to put into hours
there's not much to it so i actually
agree with you and i also want to share
with everybody who is listening who is
watching that you have to put into your
time if you want to be
recognized as the expert right for your
field for whatever things you want to do
you have to put into the hours there's
not much to it but you also talk about
sacrifice
while you are trying to learn you are
trying to possess that knowledge there's
the sacrifices you made there's no
weekend
there's no time spent on with the family
there's stuff you just have to buckle
down and you have to learn and there's
many times very very dull how long did
that take
for you
to get certified with zoho the
certification process was a small little
hurdle
on a long journey because prior to me
even beginning this journey
i pointed out all my weaknesses that i
currently well at that time i had and
some of them were even me being in front
of a camera speaking to you like i i
wasn't able to do that so i worked on
that i worked on my weaknesses i worked
on my communication skills even though
my communication current communication
skills not where i wanted to be but it's
a lot better than where i started so i
made a list of everything that i needed
to go ahead and improve and
list of things that i need a very good
knowledge of
and i just set that list and that list
was like 25
items long and each item would probably
take me like two three weeks to be able
to mark off and it was just and some
items will create more items to create
it so that list became very very long so
that whole process was probably i want
to say
between i started seeing results
probably a year and a half into it but
did not really see anything major to
like two
probably two and a half years into this
whole process i hear you so bottom line
is i think i talked to you about this a
while back you will stop you were
talking to me that the whole process of
making that transition
as kind of like automotive painter to
really like you can call yourself like a
marketing automation expert and be able
to go out there to acquire or to talk to
a prospect that whole process is pretty
much like 18 to 24 months
and can you also talk to us in terms of
during that time after you sow your shop
and doing that two years did you work
full-time or do you just work on this
full-time and how do you manage your
finance that was a very interesting time
in my life because
i valued time more than the finance so
there was a lot of things that we had to
downgrade i told my wife that before
that process even began i told her that
it was going to be rough and we had to
kind of downgrade and kind of really
hunker down and act like if i was going
to school because in reality there's not
a school that kind of teaches what i
learned so it was very difficult but at
the same time i told her that we have to
go through this whole process with the
mentality as if i'm going to school if
i'm going to college and full-time
because the more out still keeping those
10 000 hours in mind the more hours i
put in the more
i start growing as a person that was a
very complicated transition but after
that
once i made up my mind i started looking
for side jobs side gigs so johari let me
paraphrase basically the way that you
manage your finance after you sow your
workshop is you and your wife treated
like you are going to school full time
basically with no income so you are
really managing your finance like a hawk
you basically said there's a lot of
expenses we can cut we are going to cut
it
and on top of it if you you took on a
lot of side jobs sounds like it and
sounds like you also went back to the
owner who bought your car shop if they
need any kind of side jobs you kind of
help him out so you take on the side job
to kind of get by during that 24 months
is that correct
that is correct yeah and i think that's
a fantastic insight and also advice to
many people who want to make that
transition
i often inform and also communicate with
the people that i coach that if they
want to make a career transition the
number one things that they have to take
a look is their finance right make sure
that they actually have a finance or
they have some they have money set aside
to either support it or they have a plan
in terms of what they're going to do to
actually find additional offending
during the time that they are making
that transition that will alleviate
stress so i love that you share that
insight with us so you manage the
finance obviously and you made an effort
and you go all
the way in you go all the way and try to
put that 10 000 hours and you learned
and so once you got yourself certified
and you are out there but you are not
known by many many people and you are
brand new for this specific field how
did you get about going to
leads and also customers that was an
interesting transition as well too
because once i was able to reach
the goal i guess you could say
now the next hurdle was okay
people are not just gonna come to me so
yeah i needed to go ahead and actually
work on improving my marketing
understand what marketing how could i be
able to go ahead and attract clients and
some of that knowledge came from me
having my previous business so it was
already embedded in me but now this new
digital
knowledge started to be able to
accumulate based on what i had before
and i was able to kind of take all that
and figure out something throughout the
way and at first i was not getting
anything
trust me i know i was there
when you market yourself you do whatever
you have to do and they were like
there's no conversion the conversion was
zero yes correct correct and there was
many different things that i try to do
and try to create or try to attract
clients and nothing was really working
until like
i kind of zoned in zoned in and tried to
figure out okay what's not working and
what is working yeah so i completely
eliminated what wasn't working because
part of the problem that i found on
myself is that things that actually work
for somebody else might not work for me
but i focus so much time and try to make
that work and it's just a waste of time
because i'm never going to make that
work johari i really really
love what you just said
in terms of try not to emulate other
people's uh best practices
i did the same thing when i started i
will read a blog post and i will
re-literature and they did something
email marketing best practices and they
talk about specific case study and i was
like okay i need to do that
and i would try just like you jahari
that for some reason it's not me it
didn't work for me but i will make all
the process to fit into that mode and
then i realized you know what it's not
going to work
well oh so i also tell my clients that
go ahead and read about the best
practices but you have to think through
what you have what you are doing
don't try to emulate but take whatever
nugget that might work and try it a lot
of time when you try it you're gonna see
that it's not working for you and then
you have to try something else i think
that's the biggest takeaway in terms of
digital marketing you never know what's
going to work and you have to try it and
then determine that
and then retry it even something is
working like six months down the road it
may not work
one analogy i like to look at is almost
like playing an instrument you learn how
to play the instrument by copying
somebody else's notes but after a while
you understand what is a good note and
what is a bad note and you'll be so good
that you could be able to mix the notes
based on your flavor so that's the same
thing with this whole virtu journey that
you read the blog post and you read
those articles as a way to be able to
absorb those notes but essentially you
create your own rhythm whenever you
understand those notes and because you
put those 10 000 hours behind it you are
well knowledged enough to understand
what is a good note and what is a bad
note and what will work and what won't
work based on your style and practice
one analogy i like to look at is almost
like playing an instrument you learn how
to play the instrument by copying
somebody else's notes but after a while
you understand what is a good note and
what is a bad note and you'll be so good
that you could be able to mix the notes
based on your flavor so that's the same
thing with this whole journey that
you read the blog post and you read
those articles as a way to be able to
absorb those notes but essentially you
create your own rhythm whenever you
understand those notes and because you
put those 10 000 hours behind it you are
well knowledged enough to understand
what is a good note and what is in bad
note and what will work and what won't
work based on your style
and practice we talked about how to get
the prospects how to get business and
you said initially you tried a lot of
stuff you even do pay media you do
integrated marketing you have the
website up you do a lot of stuff you do
seo but none of them work very very well
in the end you were able to get
customers what did you do and how do you
make that optimization what are the
specific channel that you actually used
because i was going outbound marketing
and i was trying to
pretty much dress myself up to be able
to attract clients that didn't work so
then i focused and i realized i have to
look for clients that are looking for
somebody that does what i do so at first
i started using like fiber i didn't
think people that were looking for my
services were gonna be in fiverr but
that opened up a door to be able to have
me ask myself more questions and try to
figure out okay if this is not it then
where else is there so then my
knowledge became more in trying to
figure out where could i be able to find
a bucket of clients that are looking for
people that are ready to go ahead and
hire me and upwork was a perfect
platform to go ahead and start that was
a my best decision that i ended up doing
just working on upwork to be able to
start getting my clients from the
beginning
i like that you're making the transition
and let me paraphrase that again is
initially you try to do a lot of
marketing tactics including pay i know
that you told me you did that and that
is really not going anywhere and doing a
lot of outbound marketing is kind of
like you are trying to catch that wider
net if you will you start looking at
where are the people who are able to
find that platform which is upwork and
that actually people are looking for a
very specific marketing help and a lot
of people actually are there and oppose
their jobs and then you apply for the
job and you make that happen even with
that you go where the channel
that you know people are looking for the
marketing help even with that the
conversion rate initially was not very
high how did you overcome that upwork
was another challenge that i had to go
ahead and kind of overcome and i knew i
was committed to be able to make sure
that was going to be successful and
based on my knowledge that i've acquired
up to that point i was able to
understand how to be able to market
myself i was able to go ahead and
understand how to be able to stand from
the rest of the crowd but essentially it
started from the beginning that i had to
kind of prove myself in that platform
that i was actually worth what i was
asking for and i build myself up and
there's a lot of people that want to go
into a platform such as upwork and want
to go ahead and from the start want to
go ahead and get started getting paid
the money that they
envisioned yes envision and that was one
of my mistakes but then i switched it
around and i started from beginning and
i actually i was happy that i was
getting paid as much as a minimum wage
person but just to be able to prove my
worth a lot of consultants especially
freelancers they encounter a couple
things number one is they don't know how
they're gonna charge
anybody who is listened to this podcast
please subscribe please comment and i
will respond to your questions as much
as i can but in the meantime if you are
on your own and you want to do
freelancer type of job and you want to
determine what you want to charge you
can talk to me i can tell you what
people usually charge because i use
different freelancers for different jobs
but the bottom line is you need to be
comfortable in terms of what you think
you should get at the same time you have
to test
your pricing there's not much to it you
have to test it so i really like that
you share that with me
and another thing is i know that you are
continuously improving your
communication skills in terms of verbal
in terms of written and you try to
communicate also improve in terms of how
you can enhance your
skills to pitch
so what are the new skills that you want
to learn in 2022 the new skill that i i
want to go ahead and kind of learn is
actually understand more in the api
communication in the back end how to be
able to have software's communicate
through the api communication i'm
knowledgeable in but it's not something
i consider myself an expert just yet and
that's something i would like to go
ahead and do so i could be able to start
building out a an app through the whole
uh knowledge process or actually help
businesses that actually have an app to
be able to help them configure that
information i know that might sound very
exciting but for me my point of view
that's very exciting to be able to try
to learn no it does not sound exciting
at all that just sound boring
you're like oh you know what i'm going
to learn to be a keynote speaker okay
you know what i'm going to write a
film script you know that kind of things
like you will get people's attention but
you were like you know what i'm just
going to think about it how i'm going to
make the back-end immigration
effectively that's not exciting at all
right now
actually that's very very important
there's one thing you brought up another
good point that i want to share with
everybody is
to be a good digital marketers nowaday
you also have to be a very good a
project manager you also need to
understand your processes
the digital marketing is built on the
solid foundation
of the banking integration
if your integration is not done
like you prob cannot move the data from
one platform to another and you don't
have api to integrate your data from one
platform to another
literally you cannot track the
performance of your marketing period so
jahri even though i say it's boring but
it's absolutely fundamentally utterly
completely essential and vital to
understand and to have somebody like you
working on the back end integration with
all the marketers so that's a great
skill trust me boring as well i'm not
going to pick up that
but it's a wonderful skills to possess
and by the way that skill is also
indispensable
so that skills will keep your skill set
and also be in the job market for a long
period of time
the last question what is your advice
for people who like to make that full
full-on career transition like from one
field to another field but you know
completely different field what are some
of the mistakes that you made you want
to share with everybody that so they
can't avoid it this is not my first time
ever transitioning into a different
career believe it or not um prior to me
having that business
the car shop
yeah my car shop i had i was a
commercial diver i was a deep-sea diver
in gulf of mexico and i worked there
five years yes
yes so that was um
i learned a lot of valuable lessons in
life
through that whole career change and
that's what helped me fund the business
that i had at the automotive shop there
was a lesson that i learned whenever i
was a dive i was diving and at this
point i was a underwater diver so i was
doing a dive and this was the deepest
dive that i had to do
it was 165 feet
the depth was 100 yeah it was 165 feet
and this was not gas this was air and
what happens in air is that at that
certain depth you start air is almost
like a gas so then you start
hallucinating stuff but not to that
point but it's that dangerous down at
that depth going to that depth i knew
that all the risk all the danger that
was waiting for me at that depth and it
was my first time ever being to that
deficit
the most depth i was able to dive prior
to that point it was 75 feet so it was
in that day it's literally double that
yeah yeah it was double that so i
remember going in
and going down and there was a certain
time that the ocean kind of turns black
and at that time
because i was a deepsea diver i have
like the whole setup and and i could be
able to talk to the supervisor up and
they could be able to see my my my
camera and everything and they were
telling me how the depths that i'm going
down so it started off at 10 20 30 you
know and then they start skipping
60 and then 70 and i remember them
saying 90 and 90 was like almost like a
block of bricks that would landed on me
and i stopped and through the whole
process i have all these gadgets and
they could see me diving like going to
depth and then all of a sudden saw me
stop and at that time they were like are
you okay but they didn't realize that i
was
like really going crazy i was really
freaking out i was thinking how high
that is that's really high that's really
deep and it started to look black and
everything so then i calmed myself down
and i realized you know what
i've been through this i've practiced
through this i studied through this i've
been diving at that time i was diving
for five years and and i had all this
knowledge that accumulated through that
time so i knew what i had to do so there
was a clear path that i knew that i had
to do if i went the other way that i
knew was not the right way
of course danger was waiting for me so
that was a point that made me kind of
be more brave whenever i took those
risky jumps and through this whole
process what i would like to go ahead
and share with everyone is whenever you
you go through this process create a
game plan and at one point you're going
to fall into that 90 feet that you're so
deep but you're there for you're halfway
there you know and you have to realize
you know what i'm deep inside but
i have this gamepad all i have to do is
just focus and stay on this path and i
know everything will turn out okay and
that's what i kept on telling myself
because there's times that just
just like housing 90 in in 90 feet of
water it was just black it just looked
black and it felt really bad so i had
two choices i could be able to just calm
myself down and keep on going down or i
could be able to go ahead and
like freak out and and
completely ruin my career and completely
probably even died because i freaked out
you know that's the last steps that i
had to go ahead and that i could be able
to freak out because it's just not
healthy you could i could literally die
but at that depth once i was able to
continue moving down on my own strength
it became easier and i felt more
elevated and more more more powerful and
the best feeling was whenever i actually
reached my goal so that's the whole
procedure that i endeavored you know
this whole process is this whole path i
guess advice i'll have for everyone is
just stick to it no matter what just
stick to it bottom line is you are going
to hit that mental block or the physical
block
and every step of the way and you have
to think through in terms of okay what
can i do to actually overcome that
huddle if you will the biggest huddle is
probably somewhere in the middle you're
about to get there but you are not there
yet and then you have to
really think through in terms of what's
your game plan and also what can you do
and also i i guess when you say calm
yourself down it's sometimes it's also
self-reflection you have to take the
back seat
and basically say okay
i've been going this far and this is
what i have accomplished what i have
learned right let's think about it for
this specific huddle what can we do or
what can i do to actually overcome it
and sometimes you are right it's that
self-motivation is that self-talking you
talk to yourself you can do this you can
do this you can most definitely yes
manifestation i guess and back to that
point where i was in the water and i had
no choice i couldn't quit because i knew
if i quit
my diving career was over like that's it
my whole focus was to be able to just
focus down and continue with my mission
sorry it's wonderful wonderful to have
you to share your journey and your
experience and also how you make that
transition i think that's fantastic
all of us are in the process like we are
always thinking about i guess at every
10 years or so like your 20s 30s or 40s
and 50s we are always thinking okay what
are we gonna do next there's a lot of
self-reflection and i know now in the
current era which is the era of the
great resignation a lot of people out of
this pandemic are thinking like you know
what i don't want to do this anymore i
don't want to do my current job i want
to do something completely different and
we can work remotely and we prove we can
do that and many people are really
making that transition right now but i
love a lot of lessons that you share
with us today
and if you are listening and some of the
lessons apply to you let us know and
also subscribe to the podcast and watch
this video again comment love love to
hear from you so jahari thank you so
much for coming to my show thank you for
having me pam
all right take care bye thank you bye
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts